the only hospital for cancer treatment
in Gaza says that it could be forced to
shut down because of Israel's continued
Siege the Turkish Palestinian friendship
hospital has already stopped some
services like Radiology the fuel and
Medical Aid shortages are affecting some
9,000 cancer patients who have nowhere
else to go for treatment the hospital is
currently operating on a single local
generator well we can talk to Dr sub
skake director of the Turkish
Palestinian friendship Hospital inside
Gaza so you running this Cancer Ward how
long do you think you'll be able to
continue treating your
patients uh good evening for everybody
you know as it has been known to all of
us it is the 13th day of the this
massacre unide against Gaza already a
lot of killed patients we are
approaching the number of 4,000 um you
know being killed and injured patients
we are approaching the the figure of
12,500 something like that and this
still many of the bodies are under the
destructive houses and and buildings you
know we had already more than
44 health workers who has been targeted
ambulance drivers Rescuers and many of
the nurses and the doctors while
providing the service to their patients
we are having still about more than 70
injured health workers still there are
four hospitals as you have mentioned
really they they are out of services and
we cannot forget I think all the what I
I think cannot forget that Massac two
days ago Al Ali hospital this
Hospital Al hospital and other one apart
from other medical dispensaries
now if I could if I could jump in I
understand I'm told that you're at the
hospital right now so could you bring us
into your reality that real reality of
running this Cancer Ward I mean when you
hang up after this interview what's
going to be your
priority yeah my priority is to save my
cancer patient in my place in this
Palestinian uh Turkish hospital we are
giving or providing the Cancer Care only
for our patients you know it has it's
known that more than 10,000 cancer
patients are in Gaza
currently I am having more than 70 75 or
80 in the morning you know there are
many patients coming to the hospital
during the day we are inside the
hospitals and others are you know I you
know are coming daily on routine basis
before the war we are having more than
500 patients coming a day repairing more
than 150 patients to be treated abroad
because you are having a shortage of
plenty of the needs for cancers
now just a couple of days ago we have
declared that uh in 48 hours I mean this
is just you know about you know 30 hours
ago declared that there
is after couple of days there will be no
more fuel in my hospital this cancer
hospital to let the hospital being run
uh to to provide the service for ccer
patients simply we will not be able to
prepare the drug medications the
chemotherapeutics for my patients to to
to to treat our patients I will not be
able you know to
to all all the services yes do you
expect that you are going to get medical
supplies from those 20 trucks of Aid
that are expected into Gaza tomorrow
because they will be carrying as we
understand it medical supplies do you
think some of those will come to you and
your patients definitely I think you
know those AIDS coming to Gaza
definitely they are thinking of the
health of the patient they are thinking
to help the injured patients but they
are help they are to they have to think
of the sick patients also talking those
sick patients the cancer patients which
are a huge number in my area you know
those patients are suffering a lot day
and night you know most of my patients
in the hospital now they are big radden
they are in pain day and night they are
in need for chemotherapeutics they are
need for good monitoring in the hospital
in the Intensive Care Unit in the
Intermediate Unit they need to have some
oxygen some generator to to to you know
to give some oxy oxygen for them they
need plenty of Investigations and plenty
of other resources just to let them
Thrive to let them decrease their pain
what is called as paliative care I mean
if my patient is having a pain or having
any problem I have to treat them those
patients cannot be treated anywhere in
Gaza except in this Hospital except in
this Turkish Hospital which is providing
the you know the basic the very basic
service currently speaking to my cancer
patients because already we are about
two weeks of the war being run now we
are having very limited resources before
the war even now we are in a bad very
big shortage the drugs to the patient
and what will complicate the problem is
no more fuel so I cannot operate the
machines which can prepare the the the
drugs for my patient I
cannot prepare you know this oxygen
generators to for my patient I can
operate my laboratory investig it's a
big problem even the water this is
connected to the electricity if no
electricity no water no sewage no no no
no lots of the problem so is a big cry
must be through your respected channel
to the whole world please come and save
cancer patients in Gaza please come the
second injured patient in together this
is as simple as that already to to to
regulate my my activities in the
hospital we have already decreased down
reduced the the electricity in many
areas you know the list in being stopped
lightning is being stopped we are trying
you know to preserve what could be uh
you know minimal at least to to to
linken the you know to L the area where
I can provide but thank you so much will
be no service for those patient
definitely they will die and the cancer
being spread in them it's a terrible
humanitarian another another another
disaster another genocide against Gaza
people to kill cancer patients this way
you know cancer patient are being killed
three times here in Gaza by this by
their cancer by the disease Itself by
the shortage which were there already
because of the do thank you very much
ugly restrictions and now they are being
short of drugs we cannot provide short
of fuel I mean to let the service being
given to them so it is a complicated you
know complicated grme to leave this
patient being I'm going to have to jump
in doctor um but thank you so much for
those explanations for bringing us into
your reality as a doctor who runs the
only remaining uh cancer treatments and
Cancer Ward in the Gaza Strip and we'll
check back in with you you know after
that Aid has been delivered to see
whether hospitals like yours do end up
receiving that vital vital Medical Aid
Dr subis there thank you